README.md, before:

# pyroaddon
A monkeypatcher add-on for [Pyrogram](https://github.com/pyrogram/pyrogram)

## Introduction
pyroaddon contains the same functionalities as [pyromod](https://github.com/usernein/pyromod) plus some more. So basically it's
pyromod on steroids.

pyroaddon works *together* with pyrogram, this is *not* a fork nor modded version. It does monkey patching to add features to Pyrogram classes.

## Usage
Import `pyroaddon` at least one time in your script, so you'll be able to use modified pyrogram in all files of the same proccess. Example:
```python
# config.py
import pyroaddon
from pyrogram import Client

app = Client('my_session')
```
```python
# any other .py
from config import app
# no need to import pyroaddon again, pyrogram is already monkeypatched globally (at the same proccess)
```
## New Features
### `Message.input`
Import pyroaddon to add the property _input_ to `pyrogram.types.Message`. When a message contains a command, `Message.input` will contain the text in front of the command if there are any.

Example: if `/command text in front` is in message.text, Then `Message.input = "text in front"`

Note: `Message.input` will preserve any spaces between the text.

### `Client.get_all_groups`
`pyrogram.Client.get_all_groups()` will return any group chats that the client is joined in. 

### `Client.get_chat_administrators`
`pyrogram.Client.get_chat_administrators(chat_id, has_creator=False)` will return chat administrators. If `has_creator` is set to _True_, It will also contain the owner. 

### `pyroaddon.filters`
Import it and the following Update Filters will be monkeypatched to `pyrogram.filters`:

- `filters.video_sticker`
A video sticker message.
- `filters.ttl_message`
A ttl message.

## Old Features
### `pyroaddon.listen`
Just import it, it will automatically do the monkeypatch and you'll get these new methods:
- `await pyrogram.Client.listen(chat_id, filters=None, timeout=30)`
Awaits for a new message in the specified chat and returns it
You can pass Update Filters to the filters parameter just like you do for the update handlers. e.g. `filters=filters.photo & filters.bot`

- `await pyrogram.Client.ask(text, chat_id, filters=None, timeout=30)`
Same of `.listen()` above, but sends a message before awaiting
You can pass custom parameters to its send_message() call. Check the example below.

- The bound methods `Chat.listen`, `User.listen`, `Chat.ask` and `User.ask`

Example:
```python
from pyroaddon import listen # or import pyroaddon.listen
from pyrogram import Client
client = Client(...)
...
    answer = await client.ask(chat_id, '*Send me your name:*', parse_mode='Markdown')
    await client.send_message(chat_id, f'Your name is: {answer.text}')    
```

### `pyroaddon.nav`
Tools for creating navigation keyboards.

- `pyroaddon.nav.Pagination`
Creates a full pagination keyboard. Usage:
```python
from pyrogram import Client, filters
from pyroaddon.nav import Pagination
from pyroaddon.helpers import ikb

def page_data(page):
    return f'view_page {page}'
def item_data(item, page):
    return f'view_item {item} {page}'
def item_title(item, page):
    return f'Item {item} of page {page}'

@Client.on_message(filters.regex('/nav'))
async def on_nav(c,m):
    objects = [*range(1,100)]
    page = Pagination(
        objects,
        page_data=page_data, # callback to define the callback_data for page buttons in the bottom
        item_data=item_data, # callback to define the callback_data for each item button
        item_title=item_title # callback to define the text for each item button
    )
    index = 0 # in which page is it now?
    lines = 5 # how many lines of the keyboard to include for the items
    columns = how many columns include in each items' line
    kb = page.create(index, lines, columns)
    await m.reply('Test', reply_markup=ikb(kb))
```

### `pyroaddon.helpers`
Tools for creating inline keyboards a lot easier.

- `pyroaddon.helpers.ikb`
Creates a inline keyboard. It's first and only argument must be a list (the keyboard) containing lists (the lines) of buttons.
The buttons can also be lists or tuples. I use tuples to not have to deal with a lot of brackets.
The button syntax must be this: (TEXT, CALLBACK_DATA) or (TEXT, VALUE, TYPE), where TYPE can be 'url' or any other supported button type and VALUE is its value. This syntax will be converted to {"text": TEXT, TYPE: VALUE). If TYPE is CALLBACK_DATA, you can omit it, just like the fist syntax above.
Examples:
```python
from pyroaddon.helpers import ikb
...
keyboard = ikb([
    [('Button 1', 'call_1'), ('Button 2', 'call_2')],
    [('Another button', 't.me/pyroaddon', 'url')]
])
await message.reply('Test', reply_markup=keyboard)
```
- `pyroaddon.helpers.array_chunk`
Chunk the elements of a list into small lists. i.e. [1, 2, 3, 4] can become [[1,2], [3,4]]. This is extremely useful if you want to build a keyboard dinamically with more than 1 column. You just put all buttons together in a list and run:
```python
lines = array_chunk(buttons, 2) # generate a list of lines with 2 buttons on each
keyboard = ikb(lines)
```

### Copyright & License
This project may include snippets of Pyrogram code
- Pyrogram - Telegram MTProto API Client Library for Python. Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Dan <<https://github.com/delivrance>>

Licensed under the terms of the [GNU Lesser General Public License v3 or later (LGPLv3+)](COPYING.lesser)

Commit message:

updated readme (added delete_in)

README.md, after:

# pyroaddon
A monkeypatcher add-on for [Pyrogram](https://github.com/pyrogram/pyrogram)

## Introduction
pyroaddon contains the same functionalities as [pyromod](https://github.com/usernein/pyromod) plus some more. So basically it's
pyromod on steroids.

pyroaddon works *together* with pyrogram, this is *not* a fork nor modded version. It does monkey patching to add features to Pyrogram classes.

## Usage
Import `pyroaddon` at least one time in your script, so you'll be able to use modified pyrogram in all files of the same proccess. Example:
```python
# config.py
import pyroaddon
from pyrogram import Client

app = Client('my_session')
```
```python
# any other .py
from config import app
# no need to import pyroaddon again, pyrogram is already monkeypatched globally (at the same proccess)
```
## New Features
### `Message.input`
Import pyroaddon to add the property _input_ to `pyrogram.types.Message`. When a message contains a command, `Message.input` will contain the text in front of the command if there are any.

Example: if `/command text in front` is in message.text, Then `Message.input = "text in front"`

Note: `Message.input` will preserve any spaces between the text.

### `Message.delete_in`
`pyrogram.types.Message.delete_in(seconds, revoke=True)` will delete the message after specified seconds have elapsed

### `Client.get_all_groups`
`pyrogram.Client.get_all_groups()` will return any group chats that the client is joined in. 

### `Client.get_chat_administrators`
`pyrogram.Client.get_chat_administrators(chat_id, has_creator=False)` will return chat administrators. If `has_creator` is set to _True_, It will also contain the owner. 

### `pyroaddon.filters`
Import it and the following Update Filters will be monkeypatched to `pyrogram.filters`:

- `filters.video_sticker`
A video sticker message.
- `filters.ttl_message`
A ttl message.

## Old Features
### `pyroaddon.listen`
Just import it, it will automatically do the monkeypatch and you'll get these new methods:
- `await pyrogram.Client.listen(chat_id, filters=None, timeout=30)`
Awaits for a new message in the specified chat and returns it
You can pass Update Filters to the filters parameter just like you do for the update handlers. e.g. `filters=filters.photo & filters.bot`

- `await pyrogram.Client.ask(text, chat_id, filters=None, timeout=30)`
Same of `.listen()` above, but sends a message before awaiting
You can pass custom parameters to its send_message() call. Check the example below.

- The bound methods `Chat.listen`, `User.listen`, `Chat.ask` and `User.ask`

Example:
```python
from pyroaddon import listen # or import pyroaddon.listen
from pyrogram import Client
client = Client(...)
...
    answer = await client.ask(chat_id, '*Send me your name:*', parse_mode='Markdown')
    await client.send_message(chat_id, f'Your name is: {answer.text}')    
```

### `pyroaddon.nav`
Tools for creating navigation keyboards.

- `pyroaddon.nav.Pagination`
Creates a full pagination keyboard. Usage:
```python
from pyrogram import Client, filters
from pyroaddon.nav import Pagination
from pyroaddon.helpers import ikb

def page_data(page):
    return f'view_page {page}'
def item_data(item, page):
    return f'view_item {item} {page}'
def item_title(item, page):
    return f'Item {item} of page {page}'

@Client.on_message(filters.regex('/nav'))
async def on_nav(c,m):
    objects = [*range(1,100)]
    page = Pagination(
        objects,
        page_data=page_data, # callback to define the callback_data for page buttons in the bottom
        item_data=item_data, # callback to define the callback_data for each item button
        item_title=item_title # callback to define the text for each item button
    )
    index = 0 # in which page is it now?
    lines = 5 # how many lines of the keyboard to include for the items
    columns = how many columns include in each items' line
    kb = page.create(index, lines, columns)
    await m.reply('Test', reply_markup=ikb(kb))
```

### `pyroaddon.helpers`
Tools for creating inline keyboards a lot easier.

- `pyroaddon.helpers.ikb`
Creates a inline keyboard. It's first and only argument must be a list (the keyboard) containing lists (the lines) of buttons.
The buttons can also be lists or tuples. I use tuples to not have to deal with a lot of brackets.
The button syntax must be this: (TEXT, CALLBACK_DATA) or (TEXT, VALUE, TYPE), where TYPE can be 'url' or any other supported button type and VALUE is its value. This syntax will be converted to {"text": TEXT, TYPE: VALUE). If TYPE is CALLBACK_DATA, you can omit it, just like the fist syntax above.
Examples:
```python
from pyroaddon.helpers import ikb
...
keyboard = ikb([
    [('Button 1', 'call_1'), ('Button 2', 'call_2')],
    [('Another button', 't.me/pyroaddon', 'url')]
])
await message.reply('Test', reply_markup=keyboard)
```
- `pyroaddon.helpers.array_chunk`
Chunk the elements of a list into small lists. i.e. [1, 2, 3, 4] can become [[1,2], [3,4]]. This is extremely useful if you want to build a keyboard dinamically with more than 1 column. You just put all buttons together in a list and run:
```python
lines = array_chunk(buttons, 2) # generate a list of lines with 2 buttons on each
keyboard = ikb(lines)
```

### Copyright & License
This project may include snippets of Pyrogram code
- Pyrogram - Telegram MTProto API Client Library for Python. Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Dan <<https://github.com/delivrance>>

Licensed under the terms of the [GNU Lesser General Public License v3 or later (LGPLv3+)](COPYING.lesser)
